## Personal information
- ID: Participant 1
- Years of professional experience: 18-20 years
- Have you used a scenario-based method for real-world projects before? No.
- How familiar are you with scenario based methods in general on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is not familiar and 5 very familiar? 3
- How familiar are you with service- or microservice-based systems in general on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is not familiar and 5 very familiar? 1-2

## Creating system
Duration for creating the system: 5 min.

Observations:
The participant analyzes the task shortly before the start. It may be unclear what a system is in our context. The participant initially creates all services without the dependencies. After all services have been created, the participant edits the services to add the dependencies. The edit button is found very quickly. The description is skipped on the system and the services.

How easy was it to create the system on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is hard? 2

What was easy or hard in creating a system?
He says, it's difficult to expand the menu to see the dependencies. It would be better to get a graphical overview after the services were created with their dependencies. It can be displayed in the overview and, for example, in a third step when creating a system. When the scope for displaying the service details is expanded, it is difficult to see that it is the information for the service. So there is a confusion. Also, when editing is clicked, it is not clear that the service is actually being edited. He says he does not like the stepper while editing the system. For him it is better to select the exact service or to select and edit the system. So he does not want to edit the whole system in one view.

What are your thoughts about defining dependencies in this way?
He says, it's strange that the dependencies can be selected via a drop-down menu. The drop-down menu is too big and if it should be closed, it must be clicked outside. The arrow to open the drop-down list is not intuitive, according to him.

## Creating scenarios
Duration for creating the scenarios: 18 min.

Observations:
When creating the database performance improvement scenario, it is not clear if you want to change a service or create a new one. The effort estimate is difficult for the participant. He has some thoughts about it. While making a change, it is not clear to the participant why he needs to enter the description if the scenario contains only one change. It is unclear to the participant to select a category for a scenario if none of the default categories match the scenario. The user does not know that he can scroll through the categories or enter his own. The participant wants to click on the possible ripples. It does not recognize that it is plain text and must manually select the ripples using the drop-down menu below. The types of change are intuitive. The participant learns the process after creating one or two scenarios. The participant canceled the creation of a scenario and reviewed the overview. He is confused that he needs to completely rebuild the scenario. It would be better to secure the process. The participant is confused that he has to save a change via a button and not via the "save scenario" button. He expects a started change to be saved during the build process. So he only creates one change per scenario.

Do you find it useful to categorize scenarios on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is not useful and 5 very useful? 3

What was easy or hard in creating a scenario?
Entering the description is annoying because it is not clear when this is required and when not. The stepper is unintuitive and weird. The participant thinks that it is not clear where he is at the moment of the creation process. In the overview, an expanding menu would be helpful to see all the information of a scenario. Creating changes as a popup would be helpful to him. The termination of the process of creating a change is not clear. Scrolling in the categories is not clear. The abort dialog is confusing. It should be named to discard the data. He wants to disconnect saving scenarios and saving changes. The possible ripples are too similar to buttons, making them tempt to click.

Do you find the recommended ripples helpful on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is not useful and 5 is very helpful? 5

| Scenario                              | Description                                    | Category                       |
| ------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------ |
| 1 Change Database Management System   | improve performance by integrating better DBMS | New Database Management System |
| 2 Add IM Service                      | Add new functionality                          | Market Driven                  |
| 3 Refactor Most Trending Service      | Make service use new python lib                | New programming technology     |
| 4 Add two step verification           | Make it compliant to new regulations           | Safety                         |
| 5 Adopt UI to new 2-step verification | Add stuff for 2-step verification              | Algorithm change               |

| Scenario | Change Description       | Change Effort in Hours | Affected service                         | Type         | Ripples |
| -------- | ------------------------ | ---------------------- | ---------------------------------------- | ------------ | ------- |
| 1        | See description scenario | 30                     | Video Service                            | Modification | -       |
| 2        | Add IM service           | 90                     | [new addition] Instant Messaging Service | Addition     | UI      |
| 3        | See description scenario | 80                     | Most Trending Service                    | Modification | -       |
| 4        | Add Attributes           | 40                     | User Service                             | Modification | -       |
| 5        | See description scenario | 30                     | UI                                       | Modification | -       |

## Evaluation
Duration for evaluating the system on the scenarios: 4 min.

Observations:
The evaluation view must be reviewed shortly before answering the system evaluation questions. It is very clear what to answer because the task and the description of the evaluation features are identical. The sorting of the table is clear to answer questions 4 and 5 of the hands-on-interview.

Which evaluation attributes do you find useful? How many services are affected, especially which ones.

Which evaluation attributes do you find unnecessary? The average effort per service and scenario is not very helpful.

Is the evaluation view helpful to evaluate the system on the scenarios on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is not helpful and 5 very helpful? 3-4

Feedback: Seeing a diagram of how the services interact would be particularly helpful for hypothetically supplemented services. So the system can easily be compared with the new one. A text desert is not very user friendly.