## Personal information
- ID: Participant 2
- Years of professional experience: 17 years
- Have you used a scenario-based method for real-world projects before? No.
- How familiar are you with scenario based methods in general on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is not familiar and 5 very familiar? 4
- How familiar are you with service- or microservice-based systems in general on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is not familiar and 5 very familiar? 3

## Creating system
Duration for creating the system: 7 min.

Observations:
The participant first reads the overview information shortly. The participant creates the services in the given order. He creates 3 services and secures the system. Then he goes to the editing system and adds the last 2 services. He adds the dependencies when creating the services.

How easy was it to create the system on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is hard? 2

What was easy or hard in creating a system?
He says, the user interface is very good, so it was easy. Initially, it was not clear if the system and its services would be automatically saved. The participant does not know when to save when creating the system. Creating services and their dependencies is easy. Editing the system is confusing at first glance, but intuitive at the second. A graphical representation of the interaction between the services would be helpful in the overview or as a third step. In the search bar it is unclear what to look for, but after testing it is clear.

What are your thoughts about defining dependencies in this way?
Creating the dependencies is intuitive and easy to do by selecting from a drop-down menu.

## Creating scenarios
Duration for creating the scenarios: 21 min.

Observations:
The participant needs more time to create the first scenario than any other subsequent scenario, which results in a learning effect. Entering the scenario details was intuitive. The next step in making a change is not clear at first glance. Maybe our method is not clear when it is used for the first time. The possible ripples are initially confusing until the subscriber understands that this is a text for referrals. The effort estimation requires some time to think about it. The overview of the scenarios is confusing when there are also scenarios of another system, not just scenarios that match the system of the last created scenario. Scrolling through the categories is unclear. The user wants to select a default category and not enter their own. He never hovers over the info buttons. Even with the recommendations, ripples are hard to pick. The participant fills in all fields. The category is difficult to select if the participant is of the opinion that no preset category matches. The "Edit Scenario" button in the overview is not clear. The user always switches to the detail view and then processes the scenario. It is not clear if more than one change can be added to a scenario. The participant wants to click on the possible ripples to select them.

Do you find it useful to categorize scenarios on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is not useful and 5 very useful? 3

What was easy or hard in creating a scenario?
The user guidance, the possible ripples, the step in the creation process and the editing were good and easy. Creating separate scenarios and changes would be helpful. This makes it easy to edit just one change and not the entire scenario with its changes. A brief description or heading in the stepper would be helpful to know what should be done. A quick tutorial on using the method and this part of the tool would be helpful.

Do you find the recommended ripples helpful on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is not useful and 5 is very helpful? 5

| Scenario                             | Description                                     | Category                       |
| ------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------ |
| 1 Exchange Database in Video Service | improve performance                             | New Database Management System |
| 2 Instant messaging                  | Instant messaging functionality should be added | Market driven                  |
| 3 Rewrite Most Trending Service      | increase analyzability                          | New programming language       |
| 4 Implement 2-step verification      | for security concerns and regulations           | Algorithm changes              |

| Scenario | Change Description                                    | Change Effort in Hours | Affected service                         | Type         | Ripples                     |
| -------- | ----------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------- | ---------------------------------------- | ------------ | --------------------------- |
| 1        | Exchange Database                                     | 8                      | Video Service                            | Modification | -                           |
| 2        | Provide instant messaging                             | 32                     | [new addition] Instant Messaging Service | Addition     | UI                          |
| 3        | Rewrite service in python using a very convenient lib | 24                     | Most Trending Service                    | Modification | UI, Recommendations Service |
| 4        | Add Attributes for 2-step verification                | 16                     | User Service                             | Modification | UI                          |


## Evaluation
Duration for evaluating the system on the scenarios: 4 min.

Observations:
The drop-down menu for comparing systems is very confusing. The text is recognized. The participant initially does not recognize the table and can not answer the questions about the scenarios. When he saw the table, everything was fine.

Which evaluation attributes do you find useful? Service with the highest total effort, although the exact number would be even better. The service that is changed the most is also helpful, and even here a concrete number would be even better.

Which evaluation attributes do you find unnecessary? The average cost of services is unnecessary. For scenarios it is more relevant, but still questionable.

Is the evaluation view helpful to evaluate the system on the scenarios on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is not helpful and 5 very helpful? 4