## Personal information
- ID: Participant 4
- Years of professional experience: 8 years
- Have you used a scenario-based method for real-world projects before? No.
- How familiar are you with scenario based methods in general on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is not familiar and 5 very familiar? 4
- How familiar are you with service- or microservice-based systems in general on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is not familiar and 5 very familiar? 2

## Creating system
Duration for creating the system: 6 min.

Observations:
He creates the services in random order. The participant adds the dependencies later. He finds the editing fast. There is no confusion when saving the service.

How easy was it to create the system on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is hard? 1

What was easy or hard in creating a system?
The user interface was intuitive. The dependencies drop-down menu is too big. Clicking outside the drop down menu to close it is uncomfortable.

What are your thoughts about defining dependencies in this way?
He recommends manually creating the dependencies. But a visualization of the system would be great in a third step or in the detail view.

## Creating scenarios
Duration for creating the scenarios: 15 min.

Observations:
The participant recognizes the scrolling in the categories. He says that typing is a mistake of the tool. The participant is confused if, in the second step, he cancels the creation of a scenario and switches to the overview. He does not initially understand our method for creating scenarios. He needs a guide. He does not know what ripple effects are and does not look into the info. Saving changes is not clear. He thinks as he makes a change and clicks "Save Scenario", the current change is saved. He does not click "Save" to save the change. He knows what Ripples are after a little description has been given. He thinks that if you click on potential ripples, they will be selected. In the second scenario, the participant learns how to save changes. When hypothetically adding new services, the subscriber wants to add dependencies to other services. The participant wishes a tagging system instead of the categories. He criticizes the task "Add confirmation in two steps". It has to be described better.

Do you find it useful to categorize scenarios on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is not useful and 5 very useful? 4

What was easy or hard in creating a scenario?
The extension panel is not good. The workflow is slow. It would be great to show the menu as a tree. At the moment you have to click a lot. In the overview it would be helpful to extend the scenario so that you can edit a change with one click. Clicking on the possible ripples to select them would be helpful. During editing, the 2-step mode is suboptimal. It would be better if you can edit a change directly. As an idea: You could add a JIRA interface so that a change becomes a task. It is therefore traceable.

Do you find the recommended ripples helpful on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is not useful and 5 is very helpful? 2

| Scenario                         | Description                                              | Category                       |
| -------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------ |
| 1 Database System Change         | To increase the performance, we switch to fast DB system | New database management system |
| 2 Messaging Service              | Add messaging service due to high demand                 | Market driven                  |
| 3 Refactor Most Trending service | Refactor/Optimize Service                                | Optimization                   |
| 4 Security update                | Add two-step verification                                | Security                       |

| Scenario | Change Description          | Change Effort in Hours | Affected service                 | Type         | Ripples                   |
| -------- | --------------------------- | ---------------------- | -------------------------------- | ------------ | ------------------------- |
| 1        | Change Database             | 50                     | Video Service                    | Modification | UI, Most Trending Service |
| 2        | Communication between users | 20                     | [new addition] Messaging Service | Addition     | UI, User Service          |
| 3        | Rewrite in python           | 100                    | Most Trending Service            | Modification | UI, User Service          |
| 4        | Add two-step verification   | 40                     | User Service                     | Modification | UI                        |


## Evaluation
Duration for evaluating the system on the scenarios: 4 min.

Observations:
He first looks in the table and clicks on the sort function. He does not recognize the overall system attributes because he interprets them as simple text. So the participant needs a guide, which he should look at in the text.

Which evaluation attributes do you find useful? All attributes are useful.

Which evaluation attributes do you find unnecessary? -

Is the evaluation view helpful to evaluate the system on the scenarios on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is not helpful and 5 very helpful? 5

Feedback: Feedback: A heading for the attributes of the whole system would be helpful. The table should be extensible to show the exact changes. But with the table you can not question the exact result. If you want to show someone else why a scenario is so costly, you should see the exact errors. The second drop-down menu for comparison is not intuitive. A graph of the current system and a graph of the hypothetically modified system would be helpful for a quick comparison.