## Personal information
- ID: Participant 5
- Years of professional experience: 5-6 years
- Have you used a scenario-based method for real-world projects before? No.
- How familiar are you with scenario based methods in general on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is not familiar and 5 very familiar? 2
- How familiar are you with service- or microservice-based systems in general on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is not familiar and 5 very familiar? 2

## Creating system
Duration for creating the system: 6 min.

Observations:
First, the participant reads the overview tips. He writes in German. He is confused by the dependencies, what it means. It is a language barrier. He is not confused by the advanced menu and finds the editing services very easy.

How easy was it to create the system on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is hard? 1

What was easy or hard in creating a system?
It was very easy because of the task description. He criticizes that the video service shows videos that are also user interface tasks.

What are your thoughts about defining dependencies in this way?
The info symbol could provide better information. The way dependencies are determined is fine.

## Creating scenarios
Duration for creating the scenarios: 16 min.

Observations:
The participant finds the categories and that you can also scroll them. He uses the info icon if he does not know what to do. He sees the recommended ripples as text and knows that you can not click them. First, he does not find the "Save" button and wants to click the "Save scenario" button to save the scenarios. He is not sure how many changes a scenario needs. It depends on how fine-grained a change is. He does not know that his own categories can be entered. He knows that more than one change can be made per scenario. The "Save" change button does not get much attention. The "save scenario" button is too obvious. He is confused by the potential ripples because it looks like they are selected by default. He does not find the "Edit" button in the overview and goes to the overview of the scenario and then to the scenario. After the second scenario, he learns how the tool and the method work.

Do you find it useful to categorize scenarios on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is not useful and 5 very useful? 4

What was easy or hard in creating a scenario?
It is not self-evident that own category can be created. The Save Scenario button is getting too much attention. When the change is saved, it is better to save it immediately in the database. The workflow could be better, above all, more intuitive. The possible ripples are helpful, but it should be clearer that they are not preselected.

Do you find the recommended ripples helpful on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is not useful and 5 is very helpful? 2

| Scenario                                           | Description                                                              | Category                            |
| -------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------- |
| 1 Exchange DBMS in the video service               | To increase the performance, the DBMS should be replaced                 | New database management system      |
| 2 Extent system by instant messaging functionality | Add messaging service due to high demand                                 | New feature                         |
| 3 Rewrite Most Trending Service in Python          | Rewrite service                                                          | New programming language technology |
| 4 Implement two-step verification                  | Implement two-step verification due to security concerns and regulations | Security                            |

| Scenario | Change Description                                             | Change Effort in Hours | Affected service                         | Type         | Ripples          |
| -------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------- | ---------------------------------------- | ------------ | ---------------- |
| 1        | Change DBMS                                                    | 8                      | Video Service                            | Modification |                  |
| 2        | Add new service with instant messaging functionality           | 40                     | [new addition] Instant Messaging Service | Addition     |                  |
| 2        | Update UI service to include messaging functionality           | 40                     | UI                                       | Modification |                  |
| 2        | Use messages from messaging service for better recommendations | 8                      | Recommendations Service                  | Modification |                  |
| 3        | Rewrite in python                                              | 24                     | Most Trending Service                    | Modification | UI, User Service |
| 4        | Add two-step verification                                      | 24                     | User Service                             | Modification | UI               |
| 4        | Update UI to show form for two-step verification               | 24                     | UI                                       | Modification |                  |


## Evaluation
Duration for evaluating the system on the scenarios: 6 min.

Observations:
The comparison of two systems confuses him. He reads the upper part of the system evaluations very carefully. He analyzes exactly the view and then answers the questions. At first he does not find the most changed service. He sorts the table to find the most affected service.

Which evaluation attributes do you find useful? The most changed service. But here it would be great to know in which scenarios the service appears. The total affected services in the table are great. The overall effort is good too. For meeting planning, the average cost per scenario is good.

Which evaluation attributes do you find unnecessary? The change counts. The most difficult change could be made even more powerful. It should measure how difficult it is to fulfill the scenario in the context of how much expertise is needed. The most varied service and service with the highest effort is good to know, but unnecessary in daily business.

Is the evaluation view helpful to evaluate the system on the scenarios on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is not helpful and 5 very helpful? 4

Feedback: The evaluation features for the entire system can be displayed as a dashboard for the visualization of the text desert.