## Personal information
- ID: Participant 6
- Years of professional experience: 6 years
- Have you used a scenario-based method for real-world projects before? No.
- How familiar are you with scenario based methods in general on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is not familiar and 5 very familiar? 1
- How familiar are you with service- or microservice-based systems in general on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is not familiar and 5 very familiar? 3

## Creating system
Duration for creating the system: 3 min.

Observations:
The participant reads the overview. He initially creates the services without dependencies and creates them later. He thinks that the most common service is useless. He quickly finds the edit button.

How easy was it to create the system on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is hard? 1

What was easy or hard in creating a system?
The experiment is well structured and therefore easy to create. He does not know what a system is in our context because it has a data mining background.

What are your thoughts about defining dependencies in this way?
The dropdown menu is good to select the dependencies. A diagram for graphically connecting the service to determine dependencies is not required.

## Creating scenarios
Duration for creating the scenarios: 13 min.

Observations:
He does not know what kind of scenario is in our context. He believes that this is enough to name, describe and categorize the scenario without adding any changes. He does not read the info icons. He becomes very familiar with the tool and the method very quickly. He actually reads the info icon while creating the second scenario. The effort estimation requires some mental work. When selecting categories, he does not find the scrollbar at first. But after a short time he comes up with the idea to scroll. He does not realize that he can create his own categories. He sees the possible ripples as he creates the fourth scenario. After creating all the scenarios, he adds more ripples. So there was a learning effect, what a ripple is. He finds it useful to click on the possible ripples to add as a ripple.

Do you find it useful to categorize scenarios on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is not useful and 5 very useful? 3

What was easy or hard in creating a scenario?
He is more confused about the categories than they are helpful. The default categories should be renamed to make the differences clearer. In the categories, a sub list would be helpful eg. Database and there New DBMS and Upgrade Database. An introduction to the taxonomy would be very helpful. The possible ripples should be clearer that it is only text.

Do you find the recommended ripples helpful on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is not useful and 5 is very helpful? 5

| Scenario                                  | Description                                     | Category                            |
| ----------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| 1 Performance Improvement                 | New DBMS for Video Services                     | New database management system      |
| 2 Add IM Service                          | Add IM Service to Video Platform                | Market driven                       |
| 3 Rewrite Most Trending Service to Python | Rewrite to Python due to easier maintainability | New programming language technology |
| 4 2-Step Authentication                   | Introduce 2 factor authentication               | Safety                              |

| Scenario | Change Description            | Change Effort in Hours | Affected service                         | Type         | Ripples                         |
| -------- | ----------------------------- | ---------------------- | ---------------------------------------- | ------------ | ------------------------------- |
| 1        | Change to MongoDB             | 5                      | Video Service                            | Modification |                                 |
| 2        | Add IM functionality          | 40                     | [new addition] Instant Messaging Service | Addition     | UI, Video Service, User Service |
| 3        | Use that super simple library | 10                     | Most Trending Service                    | Modification | UI, Recommendations Service     |
| 4        | Use OAuth                     | 10                     | User Service                             | Modification | UI                              |


## Evaluation
Duration for evaluating the system on the scenarios: 2 min.

Observations:
The participant first checks all attributes before answering the questions. He does not sort the table to answer the questions.

Which evaluation attributes do you find useful? The information about the whole system is great. The average cost per service and scenario could be large in the industry.

Which evaluation attributes do you find unnecessary? Change count. The most difficult change, the simplest change and service with the least effort are useless.

Is the evaluation view helpful to evaluate the system on the scenarios on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is not helpful and 5 very helpful? 4

Feedback: A diagram would be great for the information about the whole system. Like a dashboard.