## Personal information
- ID: Participant 7
- Years of professional experience: 3 years
- Have you used a scenario-based method for real-world projects before? No.
- How familiar are you with scenario based methods in general on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is not familiar and 5 very familiar? 4
- How familiar are you with service- or microservice-based systems in general on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is not familiar and 5 very familiar? 2

## Creating system
Duration for creating the system: 3 min.

Observations:
The participant creates the services in the given order. The "Save" button to save services and the "Save System" button do not confuse her.

How easy was it to create the system on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is easy and 5 is hard? 1

What was easy or hard in creating a system?
The user interface is great. The experiment is well-structured, so the dependency-adding services do not need to be edited.

What are your thoughts about defining dependencies in this way?
The drop-down menu is good for selecting the dependencies. Especially because the experiment shows it that way. A graphical representation would be more complicated in the first place.

## Creating scenarios
Duration for creating the scenarios: 15 min.

Observations:
The participant immediately finds the "New Change" button. The participant asks what ripples are in this context. She is confused that you cannot click on the possible ripples. She does not recognize that changes must first be saved before the scenario can be saved. The "Save Scenario" button is a big eye-catcher. She recognizes the scroll function on the categories. She knows what the types of changes are. The principle of creating a scenario is clear after creating the first one. It does not recognize that you can enter your own categories. She also wants to click on the possible ripples after the third scenario. She selects the possible ripples with each change. While she makes a second change, she needs time to think. She asks what is the difference between ripple effects and changes.

Do you find it useful to categorize scenarios on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is not useful and 5 very useful? 3

What was easy or hard in creating a scenario?
There is a problem understanding how many changes should be made and what changes should be ripple effects. The "Save" button is not obvious. The "Save Scenario" button takes a lot of attention. The user guidance and editing process is great. A cancel button would be helpful. It would be nice to remember how the table in the overview is sorted after the user sorts it. It would be good to make the possible ripples clickable.

Do you find the recommended ripples helpful on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is not useful and 5 is very helpful? 5

| Scenario                        | Description                                   | Category                   |
| ------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------- | -------------------------- |
| 1 Exchange DB-system            | exchange the DB system to improve performance | Upgrade of database        |
| 2 Instant Messaging             | add instant messaging service                 | New communication protocol |
| 3 Rewrite Most Trending Service | rewrite Most Trending Service in Python       | Algorithm change           |
| 4 Two-step verification         | implement two-step verification               | Algorithm change           |

| Scenario | Change Description                                        | Change Effort in Hours | Affected service                         | Type         | Ripples                                            |
| -------- | --------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------- | ---------------------------------------- | ------------ | -------------------------------------------------- |
| 1        | exchange DB system                                        | 2                      | Video Service                            | Modification | Recommendations service, Most trending service, UI |
| 2        | add instant messaging service                             | 10                     | [new addition] Instant Messaging Service | Addition     | UI                                                 |
| 3        | Rewrite the service using Python and a convenient library | 15                     | Recommendations service                  | Modification | UI                                                 |
| 4        | add additional attributes                                 | 5                      | User Service                             | Modification | UI                                                 |
| 4        | add UI for new authentication                             | 3                      | UI                                       | Modification |                                                    |


## Evaluation
Duration for evaluating the system on the scenarios: 2 min.

Observations:
The participant immediately recognizes the text for the entire system. The second comparison system does not confuse her.

Which evaluation attributes do you find useful?
Effort per scenario, because it can be quite well planned, affected services and the most effective changes.

Which evaluation attributes do you find unnecessary?
Total System Cost, Average Scenario and Service Cost and Categories.

Is the evaluation view helpful to evaluate the system on the scenarios on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1 is not helpful and 5 very helpful? 4